We put that note, and it also has a copyright protection notice as well, which is to help us lay some claim to the digital file that was used to generate this.
And the file is here.
Was this sent out to be bound?
Yeah, right.
Here's this tutorial, which lays out the kind of approach for benchmarking to set conversion requirements.
This is for me?
Oh, good.
Thank you.
It also gives you information on the commission itself.
Excellent.
How many volumes do you think you have?
I think we estimated 3,500 or so or 4,000.
There's 3,500 or so now done, and we are...
We'll be adding another 1.3 million images by year's end in this project called the Making of America Project, which is a joint effort between Cornell University and the University of Michigan to convert 5,000 volumes to digital.
Focusing on 19th century literature.
We're doing a lot of serial material, and they are doing a lot of monographs, and there are four goals of that project.
I know.
To select material that could be used on both campuses, that isn't available, to convert the information in
in a good manner to provide access, equitable access across the two campuses and to evaluate the use of the material.
And so that project's been funded by Mellon and we're now looking toward the planning for the second phase of that project which will involve the members of the National Digital Library Federation.
Have you heard about that?
Uh, there's 15 of the largest research libraries in the country, including the Library of Congress.
And, uh, I love you after that.
Thank you.
And, um, the National Archives, um, Harvard, Yale, Princeton, all, you know, kind of the usual suspects.
And the name of the... It's the National Digital Library Federation.
Okay.
And... I know, is this, is the, this is not the National Digital Library at LC?
No.
It's different.
It's a federation that is really trying to look at defining protocols and the processes for distributed digital library development.
I hope we've got one more floor to go.
And out of that group will come partners for the second phase of the Making of America project, which will expand the
amount of material available, contractual and sort of consortial obligations of members.
We're going into the conservation departments, right?
701.
Right.
Hi.
We're here to, this is the scanning facility.
I see.
Okay.
What we have up here are four scanning workstations.
Two of them are black and white scanning systems, and we use them for text-based capture of information.
Over here we have two HP scanners, Hewlett-Packard.
These are grayscale colored.
And we do a lot of training and workshops here, which really brings an international audience to Cornell to learn all about digital.
It's that one little machine.
And so we use these for experimentation and also... So you have... I noticed you have a Xerox.
You have an HP.
We have two HPs and two Xerox machines.
We are now beginning to outsource most of the material that we scan.
Outsource?
Which means we work with a vendor.
We have a company in La Crosse, Wisconsin called Northern Micrographics, which handles our...
our scanning of text-based material.
Principally, it's because of the need to do a lot of material in a short time frame.
We had 900,000 images that had to be converted in less than a year, and because also the cost.
For text-based material, they could create a
600 DPI image for 12 and a half cents a page.
And for halftone-like information, it cost us more, but there was a blended rate of about 18 and a half cents a page.
That's all bad.
That's not bad at all.
We can't need that in-house.
We'd probably be double that in-house.
We don't run two ships.
We don't, you know, crack the whip over Allen and Mason.
Now leave the shell of these.
Those are brittle books.
Let me just go read some of the titles.
If you don't mind.
I should have brought a camera.
This is an interesting photograph.
This is Alan Quirk.
My hand is occupied.
I'm sorry.
This is Nicholas Brisbane.
And Alan, you want to give him a demonstration of what you're doing?
Yes.
I've lost my phone.
Actually, right now, I've just started using a mouse as a foot pedal to increase the speed where we can get up to 400 scans an hour on this machine in the normal text mode.
It's bitonal, it's 400 dpi, then interpolated to 600 dpi, and actually a very good algorithm for that.
The results are excellent, actually.
So this is a book that you...
Disassembled, right?
This is a book that actually comes to me disassembled.
It comes to me with a structure already determined by the person who, and I would get this from either Mann Library, or I'll get it from Riddle Books, or I'll do some work with the MOA, so that each has their own structure thing.
So it's called the Cornell University Library Digital Conversion Projects, and that's called the Projects.
Yes, this is the flow sheet.
The flow sheet.
So the flow sheet tells you what?
It just keeps us track of things.
In other words, we have the document dimensions.
If I have to go back and do something else with this document, I'll know what the dimensions are.
When it's scanned, I'm going to have to shift it to make sure that they register correctly on a sheet of paper.
And whatever shift is determined, I will fill that in here.
And if anything comes up and I need to do anything over again, I can...
I can replicate the original setting.
So these books up here, well, from here over, from here over are the current ones.
From there over are ones that have been previously done and are being held as examples, I guess.
Let me just read some of the titles.
Sure.
I don't know whether it's 1.5 or 2 or whatever, but it's 1876, Devin and Cornwell, Loats, and Greening, speaking of New Yorkers.
The might and mirth of literature.
And we'll see the age.
I don't have a date on it, but it's... This is probably another thing.
And we go around the trial of Sir John Falstein.
Travels in Central Asia.
B-A-M with an accent on the A-E-Y.
And on and on.
And there's some nice little people.
You want me to bring those down for you?
Yeah, let me just get, like, two for four, if you don't mind.
Actually, five volumes, and these are Memories of C, M-A-T-H-E-W-S.
It's four volumes.
Well, can we just take a look at them?
Two, three, four.
Exactly, a fifth volume.
Well, the fifth volume has anecdotes, I guess.
Now, Alan, what's your full name again?
Alan Quirk.
Q-U-I-R-K.
How do you spell Alan?
A-L-L-E-N.
Okay, I'm my editor.
And this is a book that's in deplorable condition.
So it's the memoirs of Charles Matthews, M-A-T-H-E-W-S, Comedian, by Mrs. Matthews, second edition, volume one, London, 1839.
There's a frontispiece.
Now this is a very interesting, what looks like probably a steel engraving of Matthews.
What's going to happen to that?
It's a fine engraving, and my guess is that it may be a wood engraving.
I don't know.
Yes, it is.
It could be copper or steel.
I don't think it's wood, but what do I know?
I think you're right.
I was just thinking from the date.
The earlier they are, the more likely they are to be wood.
And this will be scanned as well.
It gives special treatment to illustrations, which are halftones or halftone-like illustrations.
Mm-hmm.
so that it can catch the range of tone in there, even though we're doing it bitonal.
This illustration itself is bitonal.
It's black and white, but because of the shading, it makes it look like it has gray, and we try to interpret that in our bitonic scan.
Your computer will do that for you.
What's going to happen to that engraving?
In our likelihood, it will go the way of the book.
which is a way of saying it will be pumped or whatever.
Actually, some people do glean from the books.
And that's okay?
It is.
Once the books are discharged from the system, once we have an acceptable replacement on site, then, yes, these books are discharged, and the book will be treated as a volume.
We have to point out that these books are in deplorable condition.
I can see this.
They've totally fallen apart, but...
The bindings are in tatters.
This has actually been disbound in addition.
This is a book that really would not demand restoration, preservation in its own right.
Even though once upon a time it might have been considered a pretty nice binding.
The judgment calls it.
Another institution it might be that, but not here.
And currently we are doing no books that are rare.
Right.
So that, in other words, we're not destroying the final copy of the book anywhere.
There are other copies.
In fact, some of the MOA journals that we're replacing, there are actually other original copies right across the street in Uris Library.
So there's another copy of this book somewhere?
Not this one.
I don't know the story about this one, but some of the MOA material is duplicated that closely.
I see.
In another library at Cornell.
Okay.
The binding will not replicate this binding at all.
No, it will not.
It'll be one of those green cloth bindings.
Yeah, maybe red.
Or red, whatever.
Yes, it'll be a buckram.
Okay.
Good.
Oh, do a scan, please.
Then I'll show you what Mason's doing over here.
Okay.
Can I sit here?
You may.
And also, as I say, I've just recently modified my mouse to use it as a foot pedal because it increases my scanning at about 40%.
I dropped this tape recorder this morning, and I can't get it to record slow.
I don't know why.
Are you skilled at tape recorders?
No, not at that size, no.
This volume is printed on NC standard paper, archival paper.
And now we don't have that because we have so many derivatives, potential derivatives for the digital files that to put that on there, then someone else can print it out on newsprint.
So we now, I'll use a rubber stamp.
When we make our final print, we'll put it in a rubber stamp what the standard for the paper is.
Okay.
And also, Alan, before we leave, can you get the URL for that digital ID?
Yeah, I hope I've got it on there, because otherwise I'll find it somewhere.
I've opened the window here so that we can watch what we're doing, and I've also taken off grayscale.
I'll put that back on for just a minute, because those are both things which slow down...
is showing the grayscale image.
And it's a smaller image, it's not the full image.
And when we are doing our actual setup and visual QC, we will do it on... I'll just do one.
What's a QC?
Quality control.
And right now what I've done is I've just triggered it with my foot to do the next scan.
Boy, that's fast, huh?
Yes.
And it's much faster when we do...
I can get up to nine seconds an image, up to 400 A. When we're doing the setup, we check in the detail view, which is important because this is a derivative, actually, of the digital file.
This has been changed somewhat, so we'll go to the actual details and view where every pixel is expressed as a single pixel on the screen.
And this gives us the ability to see, you know, to make the fine distinctions.
And then when we're running, we don't stay in that.
How long will it take you to do one book like this?
You're displaying page 742 as we spread it.
So my assumption is you've already done 741.
That's right.
I hope.
A booklet, this book is 792 pages when it'll be done.
It is, that will take about two hours to scan, not counting the setup.
The setup will take another anywhere between five and 20 minutes, depending on the trickiness of it.
So probably two and a half to three hours.
Two and a half hours between the time I get it.
I'll say three hours because then I structure it.
I add structure labels.
And why don't I... Does somebody... Easier to show you on that.
To actually make sure that you've got, that you didn't miss a page?
We do 100%.